---
layout: post
title: Why Bloc? 
---

During the summer of 2015, I began compiling a list of things I wanted to do, topics I wanted to learn, and hobbies I wanted to try. Between _travel the world_ (7 months in and loving every moment) and _make my own wedding dress_ (failed horribly - I'm not a seamstress), there was _learn programming?_. 

At the time, that was one of the few immediately actionable items on my list, so I went to take a quick peek at the tutorials on Codeacademy, expecting to spend a few minutes on the site and move on (to view minimalist packing lists, perhaps). 

Something odd happened.

Several hours later, I was still going through the HTML tutorial and I was _liking_ it! This was the start of that honeymoon phase that everyone goes through in the "learn to code" adventure. Over the next few weeks, the more I typed and the more I looked, the more I started to take this seriously. Throw in some feelings of unhappiness related to my career path thus far, and soon I was shopping around for bootcamps to further develop my technical skill-sets and transition to a new career. 

I was only aware of HackReactor and DevBootcamp at the time, both in-person, intensive, and highly expensive. Further research brought me to Bloc: online, self-paced, and at a reasonable price. The pros called out to me:

* Courses could be 24, 36, or 72 weeks long, with a time commitment of 40 hours, 20-30 hours, or 12-15 hours, respectively.
* Students are paired with a mentor for 1-on-1 learning.
* Learning is location independent. 

(Bloc has since changed its course tracks for development. The two options as of Fall 2016 are Part-Time Web Development and Software Developer Track)

Bloc offers information sessions online, and from there, I trekked up to SF from the peninsula for an office visit. Since then, it's been almost a year since I enrolled in the Full Stack Web Development track and it's been a great fit for my learning style and my lifestyle. 

* Bloc is, as promised, immensely flexible. I started on the 72-week track while working full time, but remained on the same track while I'm traveling around the world for a year. I'm able to pause the program for weeks when I'm not able to be in front of a computer (a 2 week roadtrip through the Mongolian countryside), and resume right where I left off.
* My mentor is fantastic! He's very patient, responsive to questions and messages, and helped with a lot of guidance for my Rails capstone project. 

An online bootcamp requires a great amount of diligence and self-motivation. Some weeks, I'll spend 30-40 hours; in others, I can only do the minimum of 12-15. Bloc has been a great partner in my journey of learning web development, and I'm very happy I chose it!. 